#The Learn Programming Mentoring Community (LPMC)

## Why we Mentor

Recently (okay, a while ago...) I posted about starting a group on github
dedicated to providing free, libre, open source software projects for new FLOSS
contributors to work on in an environment conducive to learning, rather than the
more usual environment of comfortable (usually polite) hostility that is seen in
so many major FLOSS projects.

In particular, our goal is to take what usually results in a "Nope" and a
rejected pull request and use it as a teaching opportunity, to better train
individuals interested in OSS contribution on _how to contribute effectively_.

To those experienced among us, we know that that means writing tests, being
idiomatic, refactoring, and generally writing good code. To a neophyte
contributor -- full of vim (or emacs) and vigor to contribute -- they may not
know better, and submit a patch which -- while admirable in it's intent, is
unfortunate in it's content.

The idea of LPMC is similar, then, to that of the Apache Incubator -- except the
focus is not on the projects, but the contributors. Where the Apache Incubator
aims to take maintainence of open source projects which are being EOLed (like
Wave), or released from holding by a company (like Thrift), or otherwise in need
of a new home. LPMC aims to help nurture and grow effective FLOSS contributors,
to the benefit of the whole community.

## Why I'm posting

To that end, I'm here to tell you all about some recent changes in the LPMC
which should hopefully motivate us toward our aforementioned goals.

First of all, I've decided that -- for the time being -- We're going to need a
Benevolent Dictator. This is to facilitate rapidly forming all of the structure
needed to build out the community of mentors, projects, websites, irc channels,
mailing lists, and assorted other things needed in starting a community. To wit,
I'm in charge[1] as the "Dictatus Benedictus Perpetuum" (because if you can't
say it in dog latin, is it really worth saying?)

Secondly, and in reference to the above, there are many of you (in fact, very
many of you) who posted in response to my previous post with your interest in
being a mentor, I haven't been able to message many of you, simply for lack of
time amidst my other responsibilities. However, I will be going through the list
and rounding out the mentoring team soon.

Thirdly, we have some projects (and indeed, some issues which are to be worked
on for those projects). In particular, we have Percival -- a Ruby IRC bot based
on the Cinch framework. Because of Cinch's plugin architecture, it's very easy
to write isolated code which will work with Percy without issue. There is also
opportunity for building a better testing apparatus for Percy. Right now there
is a very simple mock IRC channel which he interacts with to exercise some of
the plugin functionality, but it is far from ideal. 

Fourthly, we also have the LPMC website to think about. It is much earlier in
the creation process than Percy[2], we're still in the hashing-out-features
phase. I'm working on a minimum viable feature list, and I encourage you all
(designers especially) to look at the site's sole issue on github to get an idea
of where I'm going, and to think about some front end designs for the site.

Fifthly, there is an IRC channel on freenode for the LPMC, convienently located
at #lpmc. I'm in there most of the time, and if I'm not, ideally Percival (the
LPMC IRC bot) will be (though thats a feature that needs to be implemented).

Finally, Jacob Gulotta (better known as zzyzzyxx) will be adding two projects
based in C++. One is an idea for a generic, pluggable A\* pathfinder, which --
when provided an interface to your coordinate system and some other information
-- will provide a fast pathfinding algorithm with minimal fuss.

He will also be adding a project to port [galib](http://lancet.mit.edu/ga) to C++11.

As we add more mentors, I hope we also expand our project list to include more
languages, more paradigms, and generally, more styles of programming. If you'd
like to participate (and you haven't already posted on the previous post) please
feel free to PM me with your name, email, github name, and a description of your
experience. While there is no strict requirement of professional or
non-professional experience, I've been using the general rule of more experience
is better, good github contributions/projects is better, and good contributions
in this subreddit and elsewhere are also important. If I don't respond to you,
don't take it to mean you are not welcome to contribute (and even mentor)
unofficially on any of the LPMC projects. Official mentor status will, ideally,
come through community merit _most of the time_.

## TL;DR

LPMC is live! There are some tickets on Percival and the site already. Shortly
there will be some C++ projects up there. I'll be messaging more of you to drum
up some more projects and mentors. 

I'll be adding more tickets to the existing projects as they come up. So -- get
coding!

[1] Cue evil laugh

[2] Percy is a project I "donated" to LPMC, so it has a bit of previous history.
